# Tone

- **Heroic** - This campaign is intended to frame the party as heroes! Morality is not as gray as in recent campaigns (i.e. the Eberron and Iobas campaigns).
- **Mid Magic** - Magic is prevalent in the world, from the arcane mechanical infrastructure of Pinntorp  to the divine power that the Three Sisters grant to followers of The Church of the Three Sisters.
- **Noblebright Fantasy** -"Noblebright fantasy is not utopian fiction. The world of a noblebright story is not perfect, and indeed can sometimes be quite dark. Actions have consequences, and even good characters can make terrible mistakes. But a noblebright story is generally hopeful in tone, even if there are plenty of bad, grim, dark things going on in the world.” (CJ Brightley)

# Theme: "Is it worth it to break the cycle?"

You can also think of this theme as “traditionalist vs. modern values.” When does it make sense to carry on tradition vs. upend the status quo? How do we make that decision—and who should decide?

This is the main question we'll explore in the main story—and ideally in any side and PC-specific stories! Consider it when thinking about your PC's backstory and the arc(s) you want them to go through. The stories in this campaign are intended to have characters with different answers to this question, and different situations where the question is applicable.

Examples of what "the cycle" can refer to:

- A person who gets locked into a certain way of thinking, but stubbornly refuses to change their mind
- A parent-child relationship within a family over the course of generations (e.g. a cycle of neglect)
- A court ruling that has become the standard for any new and similar cases
- A government system that works well for most people, but poorly for a few
	- Maybe it would require lots of time, money, and effort to go through all the red tape required to push a new policy
- A society-wide tradition that is done because "that's how things have always been done"