---
title: Abridged History of Kyrka
draft: false
tags:
---
# Long Ago
Eons ago, [[The Three Sisters]] created the world, including the continent of Kyrka and its inhabitants. As the almighty gods, they ushered their creations through the ages, sometimes speaking directly to the pious and providing cryptic guidance. While there are many legends of their feats, none can be confirmed today, as they have gone silent after their last prophesized test for all mortals to prove their worth.

This test is widely accepted to have been completed by the death of [[Domedag]], a massive creature who burrowed out of the earth and swallowed [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/Ekedalen (no longer existant)/Ekedalian Places/Dalia]] (the capital city of the Kingdom of [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/Ekedalen (no longer existant)/Ekedalen]]) at the end of the last age (the [[Age of Stagnancy]]). Domedag’s arrival plunged Kyrka into chaos, as the Kingdom had kept undisputed power and arcane knowledge in the hands of the few in power. Most such long-lifespan peoples (namely elves, dwarves, and gnomes) were killed in the destruction Domedag left in its wake, but thankfully, [[Nackan Qvist]] (a human serf) rallied the remaining Kyrkans and led the charge to kill Domedag. Domedag notably had natural antimagic features and Nackan did not possess any arcane abilities, but she nonetheless delivered the killing blow from the inside, willingly sacrificing herself to the beast.

Older legends tell of how [[The Three Sisters]] shared prophecies and powers with creatures of the past, and even created artifacts—although many of these are considered myths. One such legend tells of [[content/World of Kyrka/Objects and Documents/The Siphon/The Siphon]], which is said to have the power to both siphon all magical ability from a creature, and grant it to another. No such artifacts have been publicly recorded in recent ages, although some legends tell of their use in eons past.

# Present Day
197 years into the [[Age of Progress]], the nations of Kyrka have begun to rebuild and experiment with new governments and academic pursuits. Ambition is widely seen as the most valuable attribute, with many using the phrase "high risk, high reward" to justify their decisions. However, this ideology hasn't spread to all corners of the continent.

In the northwestern Republic of [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Nackanas/Nackanas]], Nackanians (“Nacks”) largely believe that [[Nackan Qvist]]’s victory over [[Domedag]] passed [[The Three Sisters]]’ test and proved that mortals do not need magic (as the Ekedalia family relied on) to live as the Sisters intended. Many new areas of scientific research have been kickstarted, spurring a wave of frequent discoveries. However, its new government, while "created by the people, for the people," struggles to defend its borders against monster attacks. The [[Age of Stagnancy]] regimes had a much stronger hand and martial prowess, whereas many current-day Nackanians are now pursuing science and education—creating a larger middle class, and a smaller lower class.

In the northeastern Meritocracy of [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Pinntorp/Pinntorp]], Pinntorpers (“Pinns”) largely believe that Kyrkans passed the Sisters’ test by establishing that they are worthy of ruling themselves by dismantling the Kingdom and sharing education and rights amongst all humanoid races. Public schools and libraries have been built, and shorter-lifespan races have been welcomed into the top Kyrkan universities for the first time. However, mages find themselves negotiating for precious Vangstan resources for the first time, as Nackanas begins to use the same materials in their scientific research. Pinntorp has strong magical defenses against monster attacks, but has not rebuilt and expanded as much as its neighboring nations.

In the southern Plutocracy of [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangsta]], there is no official stance on the Sisters’ test; what matters is their economic power. [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangstan Government/Gamvaluta]] (the governing group) maintains a monopoly over precious stones and metals, which are now traded to both Pinntorp (to be used as arcane material components and for arcane technology) and Nackanas (to be used in new scientific research). [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangstan Government/Nyvaluta]] (a relatively new grassroots movement) is garnering more respect from the Pinntorper and Nackanian people due to their openness towards foreigners, to Gamvaluta's chagrin. However, Gamvaluta maintains its strong hold over power in Vangsta due to their total control over the mines in the [[Vesken Mountains]]—and they have maintained their centuries-old policy of banning foreigners from entering.

Because [[The Three Sisters]] have been silent since Domedag's defeat, most temples have been converted to other public spaces. Nowadays, few people practice religious rituals in public, except the new Nackanian branch in Nackanas. Generally, Kyrkans believe they have passed the Sisters’ test (although they disagree on why) and have resolved to live life in the manner that garnered the Sisters’ approval.

Today, the largest remaining branch of [[The Church]] resides in [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangstan Places/Extremist Church Branch Village]], a Vangstan village. Most regard them as delusional, as they believe [[The Three Sisters]]’ last prophecy hasn’t yet been fulfilled—and it only will be when [[content/World of Kyrka/Objects and Documents/The Siphon/The Siphon]] is destroyed, as proof that mortals reject the power that belongs to Sisters.  [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Nackanas/Nackanas]] and [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Pinntorp/Pinntorp]] believe this group is potentially dangerous and keep a close eye on any within their walls, but the [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangsta]] does not have any public qualms with their existence—provided they continue to pay taxes.

Recent scientific discoveries have caused tension between [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Nackanas/Nackanas]] and [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Pinntorp/Pinntorp]], as they both desire the same resources that can only be found in the Vesken Mountains. [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangsta]] has come out of these deals more prosperous than ever (to [[content/World of Kyrka/Places/The Three Nations/Nation - Vangsta/Vangstan Government/Gamvaluta]]'s delight), and trade disputes have been resolved with coin and tense diplomatic actions (and stricter border patrols) thus far. While most Kyrkans have been focused on rebuilding and carrying on with (or restarting) their lives, those in positions of power (including the PCs) have taken note of the political climate—and some fear war may be brewing.